---
layout: post
title: "New Stuff to Do Today"
categories: blog
---

Ok, retrying vim.  Not sure what I do when it explodes again....

# Ok, I actually have fairly big plans for the day:

Not necessarily in order:

1. Set up values so I can create an OpenGL rendering pipeline in FIAL.
2. Set up bindings to some boost::geometry stuff.  
3. Embed FIAL into Tcl -- this is going to be needed to create GUI apps, which will be needed for tool chains.  For instance, it does not seem considerably more difficult to create a debugger using FIAL and Tcl/Tk than it does to do it in a mode in emacs -- and the standalone version is much to be preferred.  Another alternative is to just write the apps in Tcl/Tk, which also seems preferable to tacking it onto another tool.  
4. Test out the basic framework in a multithreaded environment, probably using the OpenGL app from above.  
5. Get started with a vidya gaem.  

So, that should be a full day, or I guess maybe 2.  Or 3.  I don't know man, it's a lot of stuff, but I will try my best to power through it.  The good thing is that all of this stuff will be useful to me shortly, so I have that going for me.  

# In other news....

I've also decided to stop trying to switch away from Emacs.  I don't
like it, but there is no other way for me to churn out the same amount
of text, and no real way to get there on anything other than an
extended time table.  I think my problem with vim is the modal editing
-- I just don't work well that way, and it is not an easy switch.  

Probably better to try out one of the new fangled text editors, that
use the now standard text selection bindings (shift plus arrow keys to
select, etc.).

Another option would be a "faux" emacs, just a text editor with the
same key bindings as emacs.  Though at that point it isn't clear what I
gain from switching.