---
layout: post
title:  "Work on bcve"
categories: blog
---

Ok, time to step back a second.  I might finish up adding in some
boost::geomtry stuff just as a proof of concept, but there really is
not much hurry on that.

Another thing I could/should be doing is setting up FIAL values that
can be used to control an OpenGL rendering pipeline.  Basically for
this I need to be able to represent shaders/programs, and textures.
Call this a "material".  Then I have to be able to attach this, and
then draw geometries -- I think I will probably call them drawables
("meshes" is an alternative).  Then, I need something that controls
render targets.  This should generaly be sufficient to control
rendering.  Not sure how adding tesselators/geometry/compute shaders
would work, but I will put that off for a minute.

Basic pseudo code:

    draw_stuff( stuff )
    {
            set_up_targets
    
            var mats, current, drawables, matsize, label
            current = 1
            label = $pass_one_mats
            get_mats(mats, stuff, label)
            mat_size( matsize, mats)
            { per_mat :
                    if (current > matsize) {
                            leave per_mat
                    }
                    set_mat(mats, current)
                    get_drawables (drawables, mats, current)
                    var drawables_size, dr_current
                    get_drawables_size(drawables_size, drawables)
                    dr_current = 1
                    { per_drawable :
                            if(dr_current > drawables_size) {
                                    leave per_drawable
                            }
                            draw(drawables, dr_current)
                            dr_current = dr_current + 1
                            redo per_drawable
                    }
                    putback_drawables(mats, current, drawables)
                    current = current + 1
                    redo per_mat
            }
            putback_mats(stuff, mats, label)
    
            set_up_different_targets
            label = $pass_two mats
            
            /* repeat above, probably yank it out as a proc and call it
            again. */
    
            /* ... */
    }

So that's the basic idea anyway.  This is the kind of thing where
straight ahead speed would be pretty important, especially on big draw
queues.  But, a compiler will hopefully help somewhat, and the
objective is to good enough for prototyping / indie games, I don't
think there's anyway to create a fully state of the art rendering
pipeline without handwriting it in largely C style C++.  (Well, C
would maybe be an alternative for speed, but all the libraries are in
C++, so it would only work if the whole engine was being written from
scratch.)

# To bcve, or not to bcve

But it will obviously be good enough for my little comics viewer,
bcve.  However, that code base is currently a mess, so it might be
easier to start a fresh project, and get the OpenGL stuff written
correctly for that, and then it would be a simple matter to add in
bcve stuff.

# Have looked at Tcl

I have done a little looking at Tcl, the documentation for this sort
of stuff is a little bit so - so, but overall it looks pretty
straightforward.  Hopefully the headers are commented, or at least are
somewhat self explanatory.  

I think all I need is a basic app, that can run basic Tk stuff.  Then
it should be easy to just expose FIAL functionality as needed (or, as
available, still some fairly large feature under the works.)

I think this stuff is a little bit on the back burner, I don't really
need it until I start to create tools, and while it will be a nice
demo, until I start using it I don't see myself really digging in and
getting it all fixed up properly.  

