---
layout: post
title:  "Bleh, Played Civ V All Afternoon"
date:   2014-04-02 15:00:00
categories: blog
---

# Goodbye Afternoon....

Oh man, this was not good.  Wasted a large portion of the day.  That's
ok though, I will just have finish up tonight, since I am going to go
swimming in a little while.

But, for the first I am was coding in FIAL this morning -- I mean,
really coding in it.  You know, it was *flowing*.  I think getting rid
of the semicolons was huge, definitely worth the trade off.  Wrote a
function to determine if a point is inside a polygon -- it's a little
tough to judge the difficulty with regards to the language, because
this stuff just doesn't write itself no matter what.

And, once I get the polygon clipping working at all, I am going to
stick a fork in it, and put it up as a sample.  I can just document
what doesn't work perfectly -- it's meant as a FIAL sample, not a
textbook demonstration of polygon clipping.

# Lamda the Ultimate?

I've been toying with the idea of soliciting opinions from the website
[Lambda the Ultimate](http://lambda-the-ultimate.org/), and I think I
like the idea of it, but I'm not really sure that they would give me
anything useful.  I'm not really stuck, I guess I would just like
something of a sanity check with this language, but I'm a little
afraid that by posting there I will get a million comments that use
words I have to look up just in order to be positive that I don't
understand them.

I honestly don't know where else to go and ask about any of this stuff
from, and I would like an opinion or two before I start crystalizing
the internal data structures of the interpreter.

Well, I just checked over the website a bit.  I think the probable
result is that there will be at most a couple replies, which may or
not be either comprehensible or insightful.  They can't insult me,
since I have no idea what they are talking about.
