---
layout:     post
title:	    "Rented Dark Souls II"
categories: blog
---

Well, I've noticed this blog has become a big laundry list of things
I'm going to do.  Obviously, that's pointless.  Well, everything's
pointless, but that is completely pointless.

Instead, I'm going to say what I've done.  Like, this morning I
finished up map accessors for my FIAL language, so now you can access
them with things like:

    my_map.element = someone_elses_map.inner_map.some_other_element

Which, yes, is like every other language.  Thanks.  Great.  I was
feeling, you know, like I had to be insulted for a second there, for
belatedly adding something every other language has from the
beginning.  Thanks for that.

But, anyhow!  I also rented dark souls II.

# Dark Souls II Review

Well, I guess I shouldn't call this a review.  I just rented it for a
day, to see whether I wanted to buy it when it comes out on PC, or
when it goes on sale on PC, and I've determined I'm going to wait for
a sale.

It's not bad, it's even kind of fun.  It's just, somehow, more of the
same.  And that's fine, but it's not, "oh my garsh, I need to fork
over $50 so I can play this now instead of waiting a few months and
paying $20."  I mean, I have more games on my PC that I've gotten on
sale than I need, so there is no actual need for me to play Dark Souls
II *now*, the only need would be an emotional one.

But I don't have that.  This isn't anything super exciting to me --
it's just more of a game that I really enjoyed a few years ago.  There
have been some changes, but nothing that really pops off the screen
from playing it.  I saw a couple bosses, and neither was all that
interesting.

Didn't get to try jolly cooperation, unfortunately, since I accidentally
killed the guy that gives away the stone.  Whoopsie.

But, anyhow, seems like a fun game, and if you haven't played Dark
Souls I, go go go get it.  But since I have, I don't really see a
pressing need to get it now instead of waiting.
